We have a minor issue with the weapon change animation. If we change the weapon while running,
then the running animation breaks down a bit. This happens because we insert this animation into the last slot,
which erases all information about the current animation pose. In fact, this is what happens
with the death animation. Let's play our animation of changing weapons in a different slot.
We are looking for the slot node in the search, add, connect it to our flow. In the details panel, replace the slot name with uppper body.
Next, go to the animation montage AM_Equip.
And in the montage default group category, also change the slot name to uppper body.
With this setting, AM_Equip will be played in the slot we created. If we check, the
weapon change animation works as before. The new slot works. This was our first step. Further in the anim graph it
is possible at any time to save the current pose in the so-called animation cache.
Enter cache in the search.
And an additional node appears on the scene. Let's rename it to locomotion cache. This node can be treated
as a variable that stores the current pose and now we can use this node anywhere
in our graph. If you search for locomotion, then you can get a node with our cache. In fact, now
we have not changed anything either, we just saved the pose of movement and passed it on to our flow,
that is, everything works as before: aiming, fabrik, slot for changing weapons and slot for animation of death.
When the weapon change animation is playing, we can blend this pose with our saved
animation cache. For this there is a special node called blend per bone.
This node mixes animation poses for a given skeleton bone. We need to mix 2 poses: the
first is the locomotion cache and the second is the pose that is issued after the upper body slot.
That is, we set up the animation graph in such a way that the upper body will
not destroy our running animation anymore, because it will always be added
to the final pose, thanks to our blend per bone node. Go to the details panel of this node
and add an array element to branch filters. We need to specify the name of the bone, by which
we will blend these two animations. Go to the skeleton and we can blend our poses on the bSpine bone.
It actually separates the top and bottom of the character, so we insert the
bone name bSpine into the bone name and let's check what we get. Compile blueprint.
We launch the project.
We run, change weapons and this does not affect the running animation in any way.
We can also change the weapon while jumping, everything also works correctly.